# Modular NixOS Config

**Features:**

- Flakes - to greatly expand nix and nixos options
- Home-Manager - for managing dotfiles and /home
- Sops-nix - for secrets encryption
- Stylix - for custom theming

## Table of Content

- [Table of Content](#table-of-content)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [To-Dos](#todos)

## Architecture

### /configs

This directory contains host-specific configurations.
This is where all customization and personalization should take place.

**Each host includes:**

- `secrets/` for sensitive data (encrypted to allow source control)
- `configuration.nix` for system-wide settings
- `hardware-configuration` which you copied from local install during [Installation](#installation)
- `home.nix` for user-level configuration
- `variables.nix` for global variables

### /modules

Contains all host-agnostic options you can add to your configs to expand functionality

**Subfolders:**

- `apps` is a collection of apps configured with home-manager
- `hardware` is used to enable different hardware configurations
- `scripts` is a folder for scripts
- `services` are systemd, containers, etc that run in background. Useful for servers
- `system` is "OS" level configuration
- `themes` is where any custom defined theming or apperance should go. Mainly
[stylix](https://stylix.danth.me/) configurations. Check out the available
themes and learn how to create your own in [THEMES.md](docs/THEMES.md)

### / (root)

Parent/root/top level of repo and therefore also your `~/.config/nixos`

**Contents:**

- `.github/docs/to-do.md` is my scratch pad for ideas, tasks, and code scraps; can/should be deleted
- `.gitignore` is used to add anything you dont want checked in
- `flack.lock` is autogenerated and updated whenever you "rebuild", should be source controlled to allow reproducable builds
- `flack.nix` is your "root"/entrypoint/package manager of your configuration, calls and references everything else.
- `LICENSE`
- `README.md` This document

> [!TIP]
> Anything else not listed should most likely not be checked in but during `rebuild` may be created here.
> For example: `.sops.yaml`, etc

### /legacy

Folders and files from source repo, haven't updated/refactored/cleaned up to work with new desired scheme yet.

## Installation

1. [Fork](https://github.com/NullAndVoid347/nixos-config/fork) this repo and clone it to
   your system:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/NullAndVoid347/nixos-config ~/.config/nixos
```

2. Copy and Paste an existing `configs/$hostname` folder to use as a foundation to get you started and rename it to match your system’s hostname.
3. Update all contents of newly created folder to match your desired use case for the host you are configuring.
4. Copy your existing `hardware-configuration.nix` into your new host's folder to ensure proper hardware support.
5. Register your new host in `flake.nix` by adding it under nixosConfigurations (remove or comment out not needed hosts/configs).
6. (Bonus/Extra) - Update `secrets/` with your own age/sops-nix encrypted values, or remove entirely.
  - Leaving them in won't cause any problems, but should remove if not used.
  - Instructions to encrypt with sops-nix will be added later. - #TODO

> [!TIP]
> When you add new files, don't forget to run `git add .` to add them to the git
> repository

5. Build the system

```sh
sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake ~/.config/nixos#yourhostname
```

## Documentation

- [Source Repo](https://github.com/anotherhadi/nixy): Source repo has many more mature features, better reference than this repo for more advanced configuration
- [LICENSE](LICENSE): MIT License

## To-Dos

- See if you can inherit all inputs generically in flake.nix
- try to make configuration.nix and home.nix generic and definied in flake.nix
  - have all imports and custom stuff instead be variables.nix entries
  - try to make secrets/default.nix also generic, in flake.nix, and a entry in variables.nix
    - maybe can have all generic parts in modules/system/sops and have variables pass in proper values
- try to move system-packages.nix into variables.nix as well
- Update Readme:
  - with Instructions for implementing sops-nix
  - with instructions for updating flake.nix - `inputs.nixos-hardware.nixosModules.framework-amd-ai-300-series`
  - with instructions for updating flake.nix - hostname references
- Start cleaning up `./legacy/` folder and moving into `./modules/`
- Look into more themes and implementing them
- Add Cosmic DE
- look into disko for declarifily configuring disks
- look into secure boot and luks unlock through tpm
- Search repo for #TODO and fix
- Go through [Scratch Pad](.github/docs/to-do.md)
-
